So there's one more important
window that you should know about.
We shouldn't need it today, you should
have all of the packages that we're going
to need already installed, because they're
installed with the starter project.
Unity has what's called a package manifest
file, so it already knows all the packages
that you need to have installed and
it will put them in there for you.
And they actually should
probably be in the repo.
So you already have all the stuff, but the
Unity package manager is really amazing.
It allows you to install
more functionality than just
the default that is included with Unity.
So just to give you a couple of examples,
the non-default packages
that are already installed in this project
are the universal render pipeline.
So that again is just a basic 3D
rendering pipeline that's suitable for
just about any application.
We have the input system installed.
So Unity is migrating to
a new way of doing input.
And there is the default input system,
which is already included
in every Unity project.
But the new input system is
being handled as a package.
And it's just a much more modern
approach to input handling.
It's actually really cool,
you can create actions and
those actions can drive
multiple types of inputs.
So you could have a button for,
say, firing a laser.
And then you could tie that
to a button on a keyboard,
a button on a gamepad,
a button on a VR device, etc.
And then we also have another package
called TextMesh Pro, and that's for UI.
It's just a much better alternative to
Unity's default rendering for UI text.
So the big advantage of using Unity over
other game engines in my
opinion is the ecosystem.
Unity comes with just
this amazing community,
an amazing set of documentation, there's
all of the packages that I just mentioned.
There's the Asset Store,
there's Unity services, and
we will dig into each one of these.
So the first really great thing about
Unity is how well it's documented.
There is excellent documentation for
Unity, and that comes in two forms.
There is the Unity manual, and
there is the scripting API.
So the manual is a much more human
readable set of documentation.
So I'll click on that.
And this is what it looks like.
This is the Unity manual.
And on the left side, there's lots
of different categories about all of
the different areas and features of Unity,
such as input and graphics and audio.
And on the right side is the page
that you're currently viewing.
And this can actually be read like a book,
you can just click on these arrows here.
And you can read this like a manual for
using Unity.
It is incredibly dense and there is so
much to dig into here.
But even after using Unity for
years and years,
sometimes I will just go to
various pages for features.
And let's say rendering pipelines and
using the Universal Render Pipeline.
And I'll just kind of
leaf through this and
read as much as I can,
because there's a lot to learn.
So let's see if I can find
maybe a better example here.
Let's see, this is materials.
Yeah, so like using materials and applying
them to your game objects and meshes.
This tells you everything that you need
to know about how to assign a material
to a game object,
which is something that we'll do later.
So the Unity manual is just great,
there's lots of great
screenshots to help you along.
And something else that you'll
notice is that a lot of times,
you'll come across a Unity manual page
that will say Switch to Scripting.
So if I click that,
it will bring me over to the other set of
Unity documentation that I mentioned,
which is the scripting API.
And you'll see at the top here, with the
Unity documentation, it has both linked.
So I was looking at materials.
Now, in the scripting API,
we have a very similar interface here.
So I can scroll through all
of the different namespaces.
There's the Unity engine,
the Unity editor,
if you're actually writing
custom editor scripts and
you wanna make custom windows,
the Unity namespace, and other.
[LAUGH] So most of what you'll need
is in the Unity engine namespace and
then there's several additional
namespaces within that.
But I was on the material
page to the manual,
I clicked Switch to Scripting,
and it brought me to
the material class in
the Unity engine namespace.
And I can just scroll through here and
look at all of the different
properties that a material has,
and all of its public methods,
its constructors.
And if I click on any one of these,
it will drill down and
tell me about that property.
So every material has a color.
And again, I'm just using
materials as an example, but
every material has a color, and its color
is of type color, you can click on that.
It's kinda like going down
a Wikipedia rabbit hole.
I mean,
you can just kinda click on these and
look at all of the different
classes that are within Unity.
So the API surface is huge in Unity.
There is so
much stuff to dig into and learn, but
that's why I stressed the documentation so
much, is that I'm in here all the time.
I'm looking at the Unity documentation
every day and it's not something that
you're really going to memorize a whole
lot of, unless you're using it every day.
So this is a really valuable resource,
the Unity manual and the scripting API.
Now, as you get further into Unity,
there's also the Asset Store.
The Asset Store is really cool, and it
looks like they're having a very big sale,
they're super excited
about [LAUGH] right now.
But the Asset Store is a place where you
can get additional assets for your game.
A lot of them are paid,
a lot of them are free, but
this is everything you can think of for
a game,
such as scripts or materials,
meshes, sound effects,
things for animation,
shaders, I mean, you name it.
This is actually really a great one,
Easy Save.
I've used Easy Save for
creating save game data.
So that abstracts the whole
problem of saving data across all
the different devices that you
could potentially deploy a game to.
So if you're deploying to Playstation and
iOS and PC,
all of those save data in different
ways to different locations,
and it just abstracts that away.
So the Asset Store alone
is a great reason for
using Unity, you can get a lot
of leverage out of this and
get pieces of your game
in pretty big chunks.
So there's also just the community.
The Unity blog is really great.
There's a question and
answer style forum there,
which is kinda like your stack
overflow for Unity, I guess.
And then there is also the forums.
And that's, again, really great place
to just learn about what's going on,
dig into some of the problems
that other people are having that
maybe can help you solve
some of your own problems.
And I've been in some pretty
difficult situations in the past and
the forums have gotten me out of them.
And the great thing about the forums
is that they're also moderated by
Unity employees.
So Unity is actually in there answering
questions and digging into potential
issues about the engine, or
they'll have you upload your project.
It's really, really great.
And then finally, there's Unity Services.
So this is a thing that's
provided by Unity.
So it is paid in a lot of cases.
There's still a lot of value you
can get out of this for free, but
this a whole other world of stuff, where
you can add, say, analytics to your games.
So if you are creating a game
that is going on iOS and
it's going to be free to play,
they have tools for monetization and
analyzing player behavior and
adding multiplayer and netcode.
I mean, it's really fantastic.
I've used a lot of Unity
services in the past.
But again, we're building a simple game.
It's kind of a whirlwind tour,
but that is all of the really
great stuff that I think makes
Unity a great engine to use.